README.md, before:

# Upkey-VIP-Spring
Upkey’s Virtual Internship Program (VIP) is a global experiential learning program focusing on an introduction to managerial functions of leadership, finance, marketing, and entrepreneurship. This repository contains my work on projects that I completed as a part of being an Upkey VIP Intern.

# Week 1 : Communication and Career Launch

Create a 5-min PowerPoint Presentation (4-7 PowerPoint slides) that clearly introduces, explains, and concludes a representation of your SMART plan for the next 1 year. Based on the lessons learned during this week, you are required to ensure that you clearly communicate your goals, strategies to achieve those goals, and how you’d like Upkey to play a role in helping you achieve your goals. Based on the PowerPoint concepts attached in the resources for this week you will ensure that you clearly communicate your goals to your group.

The SMART roadmap should be detailed enough that your group clearly understands it without your presentation. The PowerPoints should be clear, easy to understand and include charts and graphs to the extent they are helpful to explain your point. You will share your presentation and present it on Zoom. Make sure you are prepared to do both by Friday!

Criteria: To successfully execute this project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint.

Benefits of this project:
- Recognize accomplishments: You will be able to assess the benefits of the Upkey VIP programs towards your career development and advancement.
- Guide progress: You will measure, identify the skill and opportunity development you need to achieve those goals, and work to ensure that your progress has a defined destination.
- Identify any problems: You will be able to assess the issues you face in achieving specific relevant goals and work to find solutions to those problems within or outside the Upkey community.
- And discuss career advancement opportunities with your mentors, network, and Upkey speakers.

How to use a Smart Goal:
- A smart goal can be an essential document to send when you pitch someone to become a mentor.
- A smart goal/plan will help you remain focused when working towards launching your career.
- A smart goal can be sent to a recruiter or your advisor to understand how diligent and focused you are towards obtaining your desired career goals.

# Week 2 : Enterpreneurship

Solving global problems using Innovation, critical thinking, and entrepreneurship!

The goal of this program is to develop creative solutions to global problems. Students will be allowed to work in teams or individually to work on any problem during the entrepreneurshiphackathon and find solutions to solve the problem. Suggested problems that need to be solved will be highlighted at the beginning of the week. Students will be guided through workshops and activities to ensure that they are well prepared to deliver the best solutions to world problems.

Problem (2-3 slides)
- What is the problem they are solving?
- or What is the opportunity that they are going after?
- Tip: Make it attractive

Solution (1 – 2 slides)
- What is the solution to the problem?
- list pain points
- Tip: Should be clear and understood right away…it should be very simple

Validation (1 slide)

Business model (1 slide)
- How do you make money? (e.g. subscription business, purchase, licensing)
- How the business is going to scale
- Tip: Keep it simple. - If you go for data or traffic, make sure that it is really compelling

How big is the opportunity (1 slide)
- Why should the investor care?

Marketing strategy/branding strategy (1 slide)

Criteria: To successfully execute your presentation project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint

# Week 3 : Marketing

The focus of this week will be geared towards creating a marketing audit and a marketing campaign with the lens of storytelling through video. As the world becomes more globalized and digitized, we face a pressing need to connect with each other instantaneously, and at scale. This unprecedented global connectivity has created a gap in how we appreciate, interact and understand the world around us through the content we consume daily. We spend an enormous amount of time consuming content socially through different media—social media, video, ads, news, and more.

Criteria: To successfully execute your presentation project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint.

For this project, you will need to create a 60-second video, that clearly communicates the value of Upkey to a user.You can use any Upkey video from your recording library, Upkey’s social media, or a new video with any direction you choose to pursue.

The video must:
- Clearly communicate what Upkey is about and the value proposition to a user
- Communicate Upkeys value proposition to a specific audience
- Highlight the experience of a user from Upkey
- Communicate the value a user gets from engaging with Upkey
- Communicate how Upkey is different from its competitors

Note: You have the creative flexibility to think outside the box and take this project in any direction within the confines of the five points listed above.

# Week 4 : Financial Literacy

Prepare and present your long-term wealth plan using a  presentation, where the plan can be within either 1 year, 5 years or 10 years. The mind map is divided 
into 6 categories, each category is listed below with an explanation and instruction. Here is some advice. The more work you put into researching each topic accurately, the more successful you will be in achieving your long-term goals. We invite you to get as creative as possible.

- **Financial Goal Savings** - After you’ve created a strong smart goal around your own financial goal, Fill in the Financial Goal Savings bubble with the amount your need saved and by when. 
For your presentation, feel free to add an image with the amount. Get as creative as you’d like.

- **Emergency Savings** - The average family household needs at least 6 months saved in expenses in case of  an emergency. Check in with your family, or if you live alone, calculate how much expenses you have as a family and fill in the bubble with how much money you need emergency savings as well as a timeline of when you would like to achieve this goal. For your presentation, feel free to add an image, amount, maybe even method you’ll use to achieve this goal.

- **Retirement Savings** - Dream big here. How much would you like to have saved up when you retire? Write that number in the bubble and how you plan on attaining this vision. Feel free to include methods such as, 401k, Roth IRA or any other kind of savings vehicles you wish to include in your presentation.

- **Credit Report & Rating** - If possible, see if you can access a free credit report to understand your current report and rating. If you’re not happy with your score or report, in the bubble, write what you wish your score could be and what’s one step of the 5 your going to take to get to that score. 

- **Protection of Assets** - Fill in the bubble with an image of something you wish to protect with insurance. This can be a person, like yourself, or a home. Or write your personal reason for wanted to protect your assets.

- **Investments** - Another dream big opportunity. Fill in the bubble with one asset you wish to attain, i.e.; a home, own multiple rental units, a business, or a desire to invest in a stock market.

# Week 5 : Product Management

Imagine you are the Head of Product for a startup (You can decide the product, industry, or relevant Idea of interest to you) and you are leading a team to develop a new product geared towards external users, create a user story clearly outlining the following:

User stories serve a number of key benefits:

- **Stories keep the focus on the user**: It defines the task needed to provide an end product solution to a user.
- **Stories enable collaboration**: As the Head of Product (Assuming this role for this project) you will use a user story to define the goal of a new feature, the intended solution or path a user needs to take to complete a task on your website or product and ensure that your team can work together to best meet that goal. 
- **Stories drive creative solutions**: Stories encourage the team to think critically and creatively about how to best solve for an end goal.
- **Validation**: Upon successfully completing a user story task, your work is validated by the experience of the end user which creates better synergy within your team.

User stories are often expressed in a simple sentence, structured as follows:  **“As a [persona], I [want to], [so that].”**

Breaking this down: 

- "As a [persona]": Who are we building this for? We’re not just after a job title, we’re after the persona of the person. Max. Our team should have a shared understanding of who Max is. We’ve hopefully interviewed plenty of Max’s. We understand how that person works, how they think and what they feel. We have empathy for Max.
- “Wants to”: Here we’re describing their intent — not the features they use. What is it they’re actually trying to achieve? This statement should be implementation free — if you’re describing any part of the UI and not what the user goal is you're missing the point.
- “So that”: how does their immediate desire to do something that fit into their bigger picture? What’s the overall benefit they’re trying to achieve? What is the big problem that needs solving?


Considering the following when writing user stories:

- **Problem**: What new product are you trying to create and what problem does this solve for the end-user?
- **Outline subtasks or tasks**: Decide which specific steps need to be completed and who is responsible for each of them.
- **User personas**: For Whom?  Define who they are and build a persona for the end-user.
- **Ordered Steps**: Write a story for each step in a larger process.
- **Listen to feedback**: Talk to your users and capture the problem or need in their words. Do not guess your user story if you can talk to the end-user.
- **Time**: If your story takes more than one sprint to complete, identify an estimated timeframe needed to complete the project by breaking down your story into smaller sprints.
- **End**: The story is generally completed when the user can complete the outlined task. You need to define that point and clearly outline the task a user must do to meet this requirement.

# Week 6 : Personal Portfolio

This week's goal is to create a portfolio that showcases the work and skills you have gained over the last 5 weeks.

**ULTIMATE GOAL of Portfolio**: Be creative as you can to meet your goals - also feel free to use any software or technology to support your portfolio.

A portfolio should be something a student can take to job or college interviews. It serves as documentation of achievements and will be helpful to the student when filling out college and job applications in the years to come. Remember that your portfolio needs to be neat and to the point.

Furthermore, in the lieu of this, I created a website based personal portfolio that can be accessed here : <a href="http://jaygohil-upkey.epizy.com/" target="_blank">JAY GOHIL's Upkey Jurney</a>.

Commit message:

Added Upkey blog that has featured me!

README.md, after:

# Upkey-VIP-Spring
Upkey’s Virtual Internship Program (VIP) is a global experiential learning program focusing on an introduction to managerial functions of leadership, finance, marketing, and entrepreneurship. This repository contains my work on projects that I completed as a part of being an Upkey VIP Intern.

You can have a look at my internship experience through a dedicated blog on Upkey's website that has featured me: <a href="https://blog.upkey.com/skill-sets-from-my-upkey-internship-jay-gohil/" target="_blank">Jay Gohil's Upkey Experience</a>

# Week 1 : Communication and Career Launch

Create a 5-min PowerPoint Presentation (4-7 PowerPoint slides) that clearly introduces, explains, and concludes a representation of your SMART plan for the next 1 year. Based on the lessons learned during this week, you are required to ensure that you clearly communicate your goals, strategies to achieve those goals, and how you’d like Upkey to play a role in helping you achieve your goals. Based on the PowerPoint concepts attached in the resources for this week you will ensure that you clearly communicate your goals to your group.

The SMART roadmap should be detailed enough that your group clearly understands it without your presentation. The PowerPoints should be clear, easy to understand and include charts and graphs to the extent they are helpful to explain your point. You will share your presentation and present it on Zoom. Make sure you are prepared to do both by Friday!

Criteria: To successfully execute this project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint.

Benefits of this project:
- Recognize accomplishments: You will be able to assess the benefits of the Upkey VIP programs towards your career development and advancement.
- Guide progress: You will measure, identify the skill and opportunity development you need to achieve those goals, and work to ensure that your progress has a defined destination.
- Identify any problems: You will be able to assess the issues you face in achieving specific relevant goals and work to find solutions to those problems within or outside the Upkey community.
- And discuss career advancement opportunities with your mentors, network, and Upkey speakers.

How to use a Smart Goal:
- A smart goal can be an essential document to send when you pitch someone to become a mentor.
- A smart goal/plan will help you remain focused when working towards launching your career.
- A smart goal can be sent to a recruiter or your advisor to understand how diligent and focused you are towards obtaining your desired career goals.

# Week 2 : Enterpreneurship

Solving global problems using Innovation, critical thinking, and entrepreneurship!

The goal of this program is to develop creative solutions to global problems. Students will be allowed to work in teams or individually to work on any problem during the entrepreneurshiphackathon and find solutions to solve the problem. Suggested problems that need to be solved will be highlighted at the beginning of the week. Students will be guided through workshops and activities to ensure that they are well prepared to deliver the best solutions to world problems.

Problem (2-3 slides)
- What is the problem they are solving?
- or What is the opportunity that they are going after?
- Tip: Make it attractive

Solution (1 – 2 slides)
- What is the solution to the problem?
- list pain points
- Tip: Should be clear and understood right away…it should be very simple

Validation (1 slide)

Business model (1 slide)
- How do you make money? (e.g. subscription business, purchase, licensing)
- How the business is going to scale
- Tip: Keep it simple. - If you go for data or traffic, make sure that it is really compelling

How big is the opportunity (1 slide)
- Why should the investor care?

Marketing strategy/branding strategy (1 slide)

Criteria: To successfully execute your presentation project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint

# Week 3 : Marketing

The focus of this week will be geared towards creating a marketing audit and a marketing campaign with the lens of storytelling through video. As the world becomes more globalized and digitized, we face a pressing need to connect with each other instantaneously, and at scale. This unprecedented global connectivity has created a gap in how we appreciate, interact and understand the world around us through the content we consume daily. We spend an enormous amount of time consuming content socially through different media—social media, video, ads, news, and more.

Criteria: To successfully execute your presentation project, you should focus on the following:
- Message Clarity: Focused and targeted message.
- Delivery Elements: Effective use of both verbal and vocal elements (e.g., speaking volume, variety, and enunciation).
- Structure: Logically organized – opening, body, and closing are previewed and maintained. The audience’s needs are kept in mind.
- Content Clarity: Clear and consistent message that appropriately explains your complex topic.
- Visual Aids: Well-designed and delivered in an effective way using PowerPoint.

For this project, you will need to create a 60-second video, that clearly communicates the value of Upkey to a user.You can use any Upkey video from your recording library, Upkey’s social media, or a new video with any direction you choose to pursue.

The video must:
- Clearly communicate what Upkey is about and the value proposition to a user
- Communicate Upkeys value proposition to a specific audience
- Highlight the experience of a user from Upkey
- Communicate the value a user gets from engaging with Upkey
- Communicate how Upkey is different from its competitors

Note: You have the creative flexibility to think outside the box and take this project in any direction within the confines of the five points listed above.

# Week 4 : Financial Literacy

Prepare and present your long-term wealth plan using a  presentation, where the plan can be within either 1 year, 5 years or 10 years. The mind map is divided 
into 6 categories, each category is listed below with an explanation and instruction. Here is some advice. The more work you put into researching each topic accurately, the more successful you will be in achieving your long-term goals. We invite you to get as creative as possible.

- **Financial Goal Savings** - After you’ve created a strong smart goal around your own financial goal, Fill in the Financial Goal Savings bubble with the amount your need saved and by when. 
For your presentation, feel free to add an image with the amount. Get as creative as you’d like.

- **Emergency Savings** - The average family household needs at least 6 months saved in expenses in case of  an emergency. Check in with your family, or if you live alone, calculate how much expenses you have as a family and fill in the bubble with how much money you need emergency savings as well as a timeline of when you would like to achieve this goal. For your presentation, feel free to add an image, amount, maybe even method you’ll use to achieve this goal.

- **Retirement Savings** - Dream big here. How much would you like to have saved up when you retire? Write that number in the bubble and how you plan on attaining this vision. Feel free to include methods such as, 401k, Roth IRA or any other kind of savings vehicles you wish to include in your presentation.

- **Credit Report & Rating** - If possible, see if you can access a free credit report to understand your current report and rating. If you’re not happy with your score or report, in the bubble, write what you wish your score could be and what’s one step of the 5 your going to take to get to that score. 

- **Protection of Assets** - Fill in the bubble with an image of something you wish to protect with insurance. This can be a person, like yourself, or a home. Or write your personal reason for wanted to protect your assets.

- **Investments** - Another dream big opportunity. Fill in the bubble with one asset you wish to attain, i.e.; a home, own multiple rental units, a business, or a desire to invest in a stock market.

# Week 5 : Product Management

Imagine you are the Head of Product for a startup (You can decide the product, industry, or relevant Idea of interest to you) and you are leading a team to develop a new product geared towards external users, create a user story clearly outlining the following:

User stories serve a number of key benefits:

- **Stories keep the focus on the user**: It defines the task needed to provide an end product solution to a user.
- **Stories enable collaboration**: As the Head of Product (Assuming this role for this project) you will use a user story to define the goal of a new feature, the intended solution or path a user needs to take to complete a task on your website or product and ensure that your team can work together to best meet that goal. 
- **Stories drive creative solutions**: Stories encourage the team to think critically and creatively about how to best solve for an end goal.
- **Validation**: Upon successfully completing a user story task, your work is validated by the experience of the end user which creates better synergy within your team.

User stories are often expressed in a simple sentence, structured as follows:  **“As a [persona], I [want to], [so that].”**

Breaking this down: 

- "As a [persona]": Who are we building this for? We’re not just after a job title, we’re after the persona of the person. Max. Our team should have a shared understanding of who Max is. We’ve hopefully interviewed plenty of Max’s. We understand how that person works, how they think and what they feel. We have empathy for Max.
- “Wants to”: Here we’re describing their intent — not the features they use. What is it they’re actually trying to achieve? This statement should be implementation free — if you’re describing any part of the UI and not what the user goal is you're missing the point.
- “So that”: how does their immediate desire to do something that fit into their bigger picture? What’s the overall benefit they’re trying to achieve? What is the big problem that needs solving?


Considering the following when writing user stories:

- **Problem**: What new product are you trying to create and what problem does this solve for the end-user?
- **Outline subtasks or tasks**: Decide which specific steps need to be completed and who is responsible for each of them.
- **User personas**: For Whom?  Define who they are and build a persona for the end-user.
- **Ordered Steps**: Write a story for each step in a larger process.
- **Listen to feedback**: Talk to your users and capture the problem or need in their words. Do not guess your user story if you can talk to the end-user.
- **Time**: If your story takes more than one sprint to complete, identify an estimated timeframe needed to complete the project by breaking down your story into smaller sprints.
- **End**: The story is generally completed when the user can complete the outlined task. You need to define that point and clearly outline the task a user must do to meet this requirement.

# Week 6 : Personal Portfolio

This week's goal is to create a portfolio that showcases the work and skills you have gained over the last 5 weeks.

**ULTIMATE GOAL of Portfolio**: Be creative as you can to meet your goals - also feel free to use any software or technology to support your portfolio.

A portfolio should be something a student can take to job or college interviews. It serves as documentation of achievements and will be helpful to the student when filling out college and job applications in the years to come. Remember that your portfolio needs to be neat and to the point.

Furthermore, in the lieu of this, I created a website based personal portfolio that can be accessed here : <a href="http://jaygohil-upkey.epizy.com/" target="_blank">JAY GOHIL's Upkey Jurney</a>.
